September Doc Cleanup based on Github issues (#26590)
gradle/gradle: subprojects/docs/src/docs/userguide/dep-man/01-core-dependency-management/declaring_repositories.adoc

[[sub:centralized-repository-declaration]]
== Centralizing repositories declaration

Instead of declaring repositories in every subproject of your build or via an `allprojects` block, Gradle offers a way to declare them in a central place for all projects.

NOTE: Central declaration of repositories is an incubating feature.

Repositories used by convention in every subproject can be declared in the `settings.gradle(.kts)` file:

.Declaring a Maven repository in settings
====
include::sample[dir="snippets/artifacts/defineRepositoryInSettings/kotlin",files="settings.gradle.kts[tags=declare_repositories_settings]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/artifacts/defineRepositoryInSettings/groovy",files="settings.gradle[tags=declare_repositories_settings]"]
====

The `dependencyResolutionManagement` repositories block accepts the same notations as in a project. This includes Maven or Ivy repositories, with or without credentials, etc.

By default, repositories declared by a project will *override* whatever is declared in settings.

> This means that repositories declared in a project `build.gradle(.kts)` file *override* those declared in the `settings.gradle(.kts)` file:

Reviewer: I think the second sentence is a little redundant and doesn't add much over the previous sentence aside from that it also mentions the build/settings file names. You could drop it or merge it.

.Preferring project repositories
====
include::sample[dir="snippets/artifacts/defineRepositoryInSettings/kotlin",files="settings.gradle.kts[tags=prefer_projects]"]
include::sample[dir="snippets/artifacts/defineRepositoryInSettings/groovy",files="settings.gradle[tags=prefer_projects]"]
====

There are three modes for dependency resolution management:

[cols="1,1,1,1"]
|===
|Mode |Description |Default? |Use-Case

|`PREFER_PROJECT`
|Any repository declared on a project will cause the project to use the repositories declared by the project, ignoring those declared in settings.
|Yes

> |Useful when teams need to use many different plugins not shared among subprojects.

Reviewer: This doesn't have anything to do with plugins. Perhaps this is what you mean?:

```suggestion
|Useful when teams need to use different repositories not common among subprojects.
```

|`PREFER_SETTINGS`
|Any repository declared directly in a project, either directly or via a plugin, will be ignored.
|No

> |Useful for enforcing large teams to use the same plugin versions.

Reviewer: I would expect the use case here to be the same as `FAIL_ON_PROJECT_REPOS` just that this option wouldn't fail the build.

```suggestion
|Useful for enforcing large teams to use approved repositories only, but will not fail the build when a project or plugin declares a repository.
```

|`FAIL_ON_PROJECT_REPOS`
|Any repository declared directly in a project, either directly or via a plugin, will trigger a build error.
|No

> |Useful for enforcing large teams to use approved and secure plugins only.

Reviewer: I would drop the bit about "secured" as it doesn't really have anything to do with security.

```suggestion
|Useful for enforcing large teams to use approved repositories only.
```

[[sub:fail_build_on_project_repositories]]

> If, for some reason, a project or a plugin declares a repository in a project, Gradle will warn you.

Reviewer: IMO `for some reason` doesn't add much value here.

```suggestion
If a project or a plugin declares a repository in a project, Gradle will warn you.
```

or

```suggestion
Gradle will warn you if a project or a plugin declares a repository in a project,.
```
